ipa-diagnose access: dave -> app01.lab.test via sshd
  LIVE; asked FreeIPA as admin@LAB.TEST on ipa01.lab.test (API 4.13.4)

FreeIPA HBAC policy does not authorize dave to access app01.lab.test through sshd.

  AUTHENTICATION  NOT VERIFIED the IPA account exists and is enabled; no credential was tested
  AUTHORIZATION   FAIL         FreeIPA HBAC policy does not authorize this request
  RUNTIME ACCESS  NOT VERIFIED not tested; a login is expected to be refused where the host enforces FreeIPA through SSSD
                               no login was attempted; the host's SSSD, PAM configuration, network path and keytab were not checked

ROOT CAUSE
  FreeIPA HBAC policy does not authorize this request
WHY
  FreeIPA evaluated 13 enabled HBAC rule(s); none matches this user, host and service together. Disabled rules are not evaluated (SSSD ignores them too).
  No HBAC rule names dave or any of its groups.
  Rules that apply to all users, and rules that name only other users, are not listed here (they describe other people's access); FreeIPA's evaluation above already took them into account.
ALSO NOTED
  FreeIPA holds no Kerberos key for app01.lab.test: The host entry exists but has no keytab, which usually means it is not (or no longer) enrolled: SSSD on it cannot use FreeIPA, whatever the policy says. Runtime access is not checked by this command.
CHECKED FOR YOU
  [ok  ] user dave exists, enabled, no principal expiration set or readable; 1 direct and 0 nested groups
  [!!  ] host app01.lab.test exists; 0 direct and 0 nested hostgroups; no keytab in IPA
  [ok  ] HBAC service sshd is defined; in 0 service group(s)
  [!!  ] FreeIPA evaluated 13 enabled HBAC rule(s): access denied
IMPACT
  dave is refused on app01.lab.test through sshd wherever SSSD enforces FreeIPA HBAC (access_provider = ipa, the default on enrolled hosts). Other users, hosts and services are not affected by this answer.
RESOLUTION
  No fix is suggested. A deny is FreeIPA HBAC policy doing what it is configured to do; whether this user should reach this host through this service is a security and business decision for the policy owner. ipa-diagnose never proposes adding members, hosts or services to a rule, or enabling a rule, just to turn a deny into an allow.
RISK
  Changing HBAC rules, group memberships or account state changes who can log in where: it can grant more access than intended (for example through a group or hostgroup shared by other objects). Review such a change with the policy owner.
VERIFY
  ipa-diagnose access dave app01.lab.test sshd (again, after any change the policy owner decides on)
  ipa hbactest --user=dave --host=app01.lab.test --service=sshd (FreeIPA's own evaluation, read-only)
  ipa user-status dave (read-only; failed logins and lockout on each server)
LIMITATIONS
  Runtime access is not tested: no login is attempted, and the host's SSSD (including its offline cache), PAM stack, access_provider setting, network path and keytab are not checked.
  (--details lists every limitation, the API calls made and the relationships read)
