ipa-diagnose access: erin -> app01.lab.test via sshd
  LIVE; asked FreeIPA as admin@LAB.TEST on ipa01.lab.test (API 4.13.4)

FreeIPA HBAC policy authorizes erin to access app01.lab.test through sshd, but the account cannot authenticate.

  AUTHENTICATION  FAIL         the account is disabled
  AUTHORIZATION   PASS         FreeIPA HBAC policy allows this request (rule: r_erin)
  RUNTIME ACCESS  NOT VERIFIED not tested; a login is expected to be refused where the host enforces FreeIPA through SSSD
                               no login was attempted; the host's SSSD, PAM configuration, network path and keytab were not checked

ROOT CAUSE
  The IPA account erin is disabled
WHY
  Matched rule r_erin (enabled) - user: erin listed directly | host: app01.lab.test listed directly | service: sshd listed directly
  The IPA account erin is disabled: FreeIPA marks the account disabled (nsAccountLock): the KDC refuses it, and SSSD's IPA access check refuses disabled accounts too (documented SSSD behaviour, so this also applies to SSH-key logins), whatever HBAC allows. A host answering from SSSD's offline cache may lag behind.
ALSO NOTED
  FreeIPA holds no Kerberos key for app01.lab.test: The host entry exists but has no keytab, which usually means it is not (or no longer) enrolled: SSSD on it cannot use FreeIPA, whatever the policy says. Runtime access is not checked by this command.
CHECKED FOR YOU
  [!!  ] user erin exists, disabled; 1 direct and 0 nested groups
  [!!  ] host app01.lab.test exists; 0 direct and 0 nested hostgroups; no keytab in IPA
  [ok  ] HBAC service sshd is defined; in 0 service group(s)
  [ok  ] FreeIPA evaluated 13 enabled HBAC rule(s): access granted; matched: r_erin
  [ok  ] rule r_erin: enabled
IMPACT
  erin cannot authenticate with FreeIPA, and SSSD's IPA access check refuses disabled accounts, so logins to IPA-joined hosts are expected to fail regardless of HBAC.
RESOLUTION
  No fix is suggested. Accounts are usually disabled or expired on purpose (offboarding, security incidents, contract end). Whether this account should be usable is a decision for its owner's process, not for a diagnostic tool.
RISK
  Changing HBAC rules, group memberships or account state changes who can log in where: it can grant more access than intended (for example through a group or hostgroup shared by other objects). Review such a change with the policy owner.
VERIFY
  ipa hbactest --user=erin --host=app01.lab.test --service=sshd (FreeIPA's own evaluation, read-only)
  ipa user-show erin --all (read-only; 'Account disabled' and 'Kerberos principal expiration')
LIMITATIONS
  Runtime access is not tested: no login is attempted, and the host's SSSD (including its offline cache), PAM stack, access_provider setting, network path and keytab are not checked.
  (--details lists every limitation, the API calls made and the relationships read)
