ipa-diagnose client: client1.lab.test (IPA domain lab.test, server ipa01.lab.test)
  LIVE; asked about user alice, service sshd; SSSD 2.12.0, IPA client 4.13.4

client1.lab.test: SSSD is not running.

  AUTHENTICATION  FAIL         online authentication against IPA fails on this host: SSSD is not running
  AUTHORIZATION   NOT VERIFIED not evaluated by client mode: FreeIPA's own decision comes from ipa-diagnose access USER HOST SERVICE
  RUNTIME ACCESS  FAIL         a login by alice through sshd is expected to fail on this host: SSSD is not running

ROOT CAUSE
  [PRIMARY] SSSD is not running - confidence HIGH
      sssd.service is inactive.
      Impact: No IPA user or group resolves here (apart from nscd/memory caches), and no IPA login works.

CHECKED FOR YOU
  ✓ IPA client configuration present: enrolled in lab.test (LAB.TEST) as client1.lab.test; server ipa01.lab.test
  ✓ SSSD and IPA client versions: SSSD 2.12.0, IPA client 4.13.4, fedora 43
  ✓ SSSD configured for the IPA domain: sssd.conf: IPA domain lab.test, servers _srv_, ipa01.lab.test, access_provider ipa
  ✓ Resolvers configured: 1 resolver(s) in /etc/resolv.conf; search lab.test
  ✓ IPA server name resolves: ipa01.lab.test resolves to 172.30.0.10
  ✓ LDAP SRV records (_ldap._tcp): _ldap._tcp.lab.test: 1 record(s) (ipa01.lab.test)
  ✓ Kerberos SRV records (_kerberos._tcp): _kerberos._tcp.lab.test: 1 record(s) (ipa01.lab.test)
  ✓ IPA server answers on 443 (HTTPS): TCP ipa01.lab.test:443: open
  ✓ IPA server answers on 389 (LDAP): TCP ipa01.lab.test:389: open
  ✓ IPA server answers on 88 (Kerberos, TCP): TCP ipa01.lab.test:88: open
  ✓ IPA server certificate trusted: the IPA server's certificate verifies with this host's IPA CA (/etc/ipa/ca.crt)
  ✓ Clock agrees with the IPA server: this host's clock is 0 s ahead of the IPA server's (verified TLS)
  ✓ Host keytab present with this host's key: /etc/krb5.keytab has keys for host/client1.lab.test@LAB.TEST (kvno 1)
  ✓ KDC accepts this host's key: the KDC accepted this host's key: the host principal exists and the keytab matches
  ✗ SSSD service running: sssd.service is inactive
  ✓ SSSD configuration valid (sssctl config-check): sssctl config-check found no issue
  ✓ PAM service reaches SSSD: PAM service sshd: pam_sss in account yes, in auth yes
  ✓ SSSD log signals: 59 recent SSSD log line(s): no known problem signal
  (4 blocked, 6 not needed check(s) not run; --details says why)
RULED OUT
  enrollment configuration is present; SSSD is configured for the IPA domain; the IPA server name resolves; LDAP SRV records exist; Kerberos SRV records exist; the server answers on HTTPS; the server answers on LDAP; the server answers on Kerberos (TCP); the server's certificate is trusted; the clocks agree; the host keytab holds this host's key; the KDC accepts this host's key; the SSSD configuration is valid; the PAM service uses SSSD
RESOLUTION
  For 'SSSD is not running': Start SSSD (risk MEDIUM; ipa-diagnose never runs it)
    Verified in a live lab on FreeIPA 4.13.4 / fedora-43 (the maintainer has not promoted it to built-in verified). Check each step before running it.
    ✓ ipa-diagnose is running as root (starting a system service needs root)
    1. Start only sssd.service; no other service is started or stopped
         systemctl start sssd.service
       Expected: the command returns without an error and sssd.service is active. If it fails, it stays stopped and 'systemctl status sssd' shows why.
    What changes: sssd.service goes from inactive to running. SSSD reads its existing configuration and cache; nothing is edited or deleted.
    Rollback: Stop it again (back to the state it was in)  ->  systemctl stop sssd.service
    Note: This starts SSSD; it does not establish why it stopped. If it stopped because of a failure (see the last result and log line above), the same cause can stop it again.
NEXT READ-ONLY STEPS
  systemctl status sssd (read-only)
  journalctl -u sssd -n 30 (read-only)
VERIFY
  After a fix, run: ipa-diagnose client --verify --user alice --service sshd   (fresh checks; compares with this run)
    - sssd.service is active
    - SSSD resolves the group admins (present in every IPA domain)
LIMITATIONS
  No login is attempted and no credential is tested: RUNTIME ACCESS and AUTHENTICATION are never reported as PASS.
  planner: 18 of 28 checks run, 1 result(s) reused, 0.058 s; stop: every relevant check in the plan was visited
