ipa-diagnose access: alice -> client1.lab.test via sshd
  LIVE; asked FreeIPA as admin@LAB.TEST on ipa01.lab.test (API 4.13.4)

FreeIPA HBAC policy authorizes alice to access client1.lab.test through sshd, but the login is expected to fail on this host: SSSD is not running.

  AUTHENTICATION  NOT VERIFIED the IPA account exists and is enabled; no credential was tested
                               the password expired at 2026-09-30T16:20:44Z: a password login must change it first
  AUTHORIZATION   PASS         FreeIPA HBAC policy allows this request (rule: r_client)
  RUNTIME ACCESS  FAIL         checked on client1.lab.test: a login by alice through sshd is expected to fail on this host: SSSD is not running

ROOT CAUSE
  on this host: SSSD is not running
WHY
  Matched rule r_client (enabled) - user: alice listed directly | host: client1.lab.test listed directly | service: sshd listed directly
ALSO NOTED
  The password of alice expired at 2026-09-30T16:20:44Z: A password login must change the password first; logins that do not use the password (for example SSH keys) are not affected by this.
RUNTIME (--runtime)
  investigated on this host with client mode's planner
  [PRIMARY] SSSD is not running - confidence HIGH
      sssd.service is inactive.
  [!!  ] SSSD service running: sssd.service is inactive
  [!   ] SSSD log signals: 1206 recent SSSD log line(s): offline x5, server_unreachable x4
  (16 runtime check(s) on this host passed; --details lists them)
  Fix on this host: Start SSSD (risk MEDIUM; ipa-diagnose never runs it)
       systemctl start sssd.service
       Expected: the command returns without an error and sssd.service is active. If it fails, it stays stopped and 'systemctl status sssd' shows why.
CHECKED FOR YOU
  [ok  ] user alice exists, enabled, no principal expiration set or readable; 1 direct and 0 nested groups
  [ok  ] host client1.lab.test exists; 0 direct and 0 nested hostgroups
  [ok  ] HBAC service sshd is defined; in 0 service group(s)
  [ok  ] FreeIPA evaluated 2 enabled HBAC rule(s): access granted; matched: r_client
  [ok  ] rule r_client: enabled
IMPACT
  FreeIPA HBAC policy is not what stops this login: the runtime side on this host is (SSSD is not running). Fixing the policy would not help.
RESOLUTION
  Nothing to fix in FreeIPA HBAC policy for this request.
RISK
  None from this command: it only reads.
VERIFY
  ipa hbactest --user=alice --host=client1.lab.test --service=sshd (FreeIPA's own evaluation, read-only)
  ipa user-status alice (read-only; failed logins and lockout on each server)
  after a fix on this host: ipa-diagnose client --verify (fresh checks)
LIMITATIONS
  Runtime prerequisites were checked on this host with client mode (SSSD, identity lookup, NSS, PAM stack and account phase); no login is attempted and no credential is tested.
  (--details lists every limitation, the API calls made and the relationships read)
